The four aerodynamic drag flaps deploy at four hundred and
fifty kilometers above the surface. The flaps protect the delicate
engines during the harsh atmospheric entry, as well as decreasing
terminal velocity once in the thick soup of the lower atmosphere. The
building-sized spacecraft, gleaming white in the yellow glow of the
distant sun, contains two crew and three hundred tons of out-of-system
cargo. Some of it is legal, too.

The bridge---if a two-man cockpit can be called that---displays the
trajectory and surroundings of the ship, as well as the status of its
systems. Instead of the inches-thick diamond windshield used in
earlier models, the _Wasp_ has a fully digital bridge. Sensors mounted
on the vehicle relay data to the ship's computer core, and it renders
the environment and displays it on window-sized display panels. The
_Wasp_ is capable of flying itself in nearly any condition; like all
modern ships, the pilot is aboard only as a precaution.

The _Wasp_ was built only three years ago, in 3402; and as such, it
was a highly advanced, state-of-the-art spaceship, capable of both
interstellar jumps and atmospheric entry and landing. In a pinch, it
could jump a cumulative 30 light years per day.

This last attribute was the reason its crew had chosen the _Wasp_. The
manufacturer had only produced a dozen Athro-class ships before one
had gone missing along with its crew and lone passenger, the leader of
twelve member systems of the Interplanetary Alliance. The legal
proceedings mired the company, and they were shuttered within
months. As the fastest ship in the galaxy, it made a good ship for
barely-legal cargo.

Plus, it looked really cool.

***

As the ship began encountering the wispy tendrils of the upper
atmosphere, the tail shield glows orange, then red, then white. The
four drag flaps, held open with pairs of massive electromagnetic
pistons, creak under the immense force as the white-hot plasma pushes
them back. Inside, the seat restraints tighten up as the G-force
gradually increases, and as the shaking becomes more pronounced, the
plasma thrusters engage, aligning the vehicle and keeping it traveling
down the center of the entry corridor.

At one hundred and fifteen kilometers in altitude and with the ship
undergoing nearly four Gs of acceleration, one of the pistons
snaps. Thick electrical cables whip around in the near-vacuum behind
the flap; chunks of metal and thermal ceramic fly about crazily, some
smashing through the protective shielding into the other piston. The
flap, now held by only a single piston, begins to slowly retract
towards the vehicle. The red-hot plasma streams past the edges of the
flap, approaching the lip of the engine nozzle the flap was designed
to protect.

Inside, alarms begin to go off.

***

"Port side engine A is heating up past nominal," calls out Jase, my
copilot, as the master caution alerts go off and the gentle blue glow
of the displays shifts to orange. "I'm also seeing reduced aero
pressure in the ventral flap." Out of the corner of my eye, I see him
wave his hand over the control panels in front of him, his hand
glowing orange from the alerts on the display. "It looks like we've
got a partially retracted number three flap. I'll bring up the partial
flap failure checklist."

"Go right ahead," I reply, watching the flight displays arrayed in
front of me, and behind their glow, the digitally reconstructed view
of space. I can see from the heads-up display that entry guidance is
still engaged despite one of the four aero flaps not being fully
deployed; the plasma thrusters on the nose can easily overcome a
failed flap and keep the ship in the entry corridor. The engines, on
the other hand... well, they're not that good at operating after
ingesting debris, especially if the debris was melted off of the
engine itself in the first place. If an engine doesn't work, we can
still land, probably; if another engine fails during the landing burn,
we're dead meat. Admittedly, engine failures are incredibly unlikely,
but if we can avoid a single engine out, it makes a second, fatal,
engine failure much less likely.

If the flap crumples much more, we'll have to perform an entry
abort. The standard entry abort procedure dictates running the engines
at max thrust with the flaps retracted to avoid debris injection, then
descending to 0.6 atmospheres under engine thrust, deploying
parachutes, and splashing down in an ocean. Did I say _splashing
down_? I meant _smashing down_. The parachutes aren't too great at
slowing the ship down; after all, they're used for emergencies
only. They just reduce terminal velocity from Mach 3 or so to a
survivable 50 meters per second. Survivable for the passengers, but
not for the payload.

Best case, performing an entry abort destroys all four of the engines
and the entire tail end of the ship, along with the cargo compartment;
worst case, everybody dies anyway when the engines burn through or get
destroyed by debris and we're still too fast and high for
parachutes. Needless to say, I'd prefer avoiding either one of those
fates.

"Okay, first off," Jase begins. "Confirm reactor efficiency both above
95%."

I look up at the overhead panel, where most of the systems controls
are. Both reactors are operating at below 15% capacity and running at
98% efficiency; they're also well within acceptable
temperatures. "Yep, both good."

"Fuel cells to AUTO."

All six fuel cell banks are on auto; none of them show any
failures. "All green," I tell him.

"Uh, check the power levels to the flaps."

I glance at the four green bars, each of them full. "All at 100%."

"Okay, so it's got to be a mechanical issue, then. What's the
temperature increase rate on the flap?"

"I'm seeing thirty per second. We'll be overstressing the number one
engine a bit, but we should make it to the surface just fine."

He consults the procedures for the ship. "Uh, you're not gonna like
this," he says, frowning. "They say thirty five per second is the
abort temp. Something to do with runaway systems failure." He looks up
from the panel and watches me, waiting for my reaction.

I consider an entry abort for a fraction of a second, then discard the
idea. We're not technically above the trigger temperature increase
yet, and the checklists and procedures were written with ass-covering
in mind. Plus, an entry abort would destroy the ship and we'd lose the
cargo, and that's on top of the fines we'd get hit with if the ship
cratered anywhere remotely habitable.

"We'll stay with it," I tell him. "If we hit forty, we'll abort." He
nods in assent, then looks back at his panels and continues to monitor
the ship's systems.

We're at sixty kilometers now and still decelerating at about 3
Gs. The entire atmospheric entry sequence lasts anywhere from a minute
or two to over seven minutes on large planets with dense
atmospheres. It also depends a lot on how fast you enter the system;
if you're planning to perform a direct entry from a jump, you'll be
able to go quite a bit faster. We went for a direct entry on this
particular mission; the less time we're in space, the lower the
chances we'll be scanned by the system authorities and... well, you
get the point.

"Flap temperature rate is decreasing again," Jase says. "It peaked
at... let me see... thirty six degrees per second. I think the engine
is still okay, but we won't know for sure until we start it."

Now that the ship has gone through the worst of the atmospheric entry,
the ride is gentler. This planet is a large earthlike; at 0.7 Gs, it's
close enough to Earth's to be livable, but still low enough to require
you to watch your gait carefully for the first few days as you
adapt. It's advantageous for us; it means we won't need as much thrust
to perform a safe landing.

The next few minutes will be spent falling through the atmosphere at
terminal velocity. At about fifteen kilometers, the drag brakes will
retract, and a few seconds later, the four engines will start up and
begin guiding us towards the spaceport. Before we can begin the
landing, though, we have to check in with the spaceport
controllers. Which reminds me.

"This is _Wasp_," I say. The ship will translate my words to whatever
dialect or language they speak on the surface, then transmit them over
navcom to the spaceport controllers, along with the ship's ident
code. "We are approximately three minutes out, targeting pad B5."  The
landing pad was assigned to us while we were still in orbit, because
spaceships usually don't have a very long hover time; it's usually
measured in minutes. We can't just hover there while they slot us
in. Fuel isn't the issue, though; when fully fueled, we have enough
fuel to reach LEO from the surface, then retro burn, land, then
repeat. The problem is overheating: the engines simply aren't designed
to run at high thrusts for very long. After all, they rarely need to;
a majority of ships are used for ferrying cargo to and from a planet's
moons; those are, in reality, fully automated despite having one or
two crew.

The _Wasp_ is still perfectly centered in the entry corridor. The
plasma thrusters are doing a great job at keeping the ship in control,
and the guidance computer is, as always, on top of everything.

"Altitude: fifty kilometers," enunciates the computer. The ship is
smoothly falling through the atmosphere now; soon, the main engines
will begin the startup sequence in preparation for the landing burn.

"Standing by for flap retract," calls out Jase. "I'll watch the port A
engine, check for anything falling off." Despite his weak attempt at
humor, he sounds strained. I'm pretty sure he'll be asking for a raise
soon.

The layers of acoustic shielding separating the tail from the rest of
the ship don't fully block out the groaning, crunching noise the
damaged flap makes as it crushes back towards the ship. "I'm seeing a
25% retract indication," Jase says. That's not good: the flap isn't
flush against the side of the ship. When the engine starts---_if_ the
engine starts---it'll be partially blocked by a giant flap. The flap
will burn through, of course, but until it does, we'll be forced to
fly at half thrust unless we want the ship to flip over when the left
side of the ship only has one engine producing thrust. The computer
would detect the massive thrust imbalance and instantly initiate an
entry abort.

I make my decision quickly. "Give me manual control of the vehicle," I
say to the ship. I grab the two joysticks, and moments later, I feel
them suddenly soften as the computer disables the entry guidance. I
trim the ship with the small thumb dials on the joysticks, then watch
the heads-up display as the ship barrels past thirty kilometers
altitude. The blue ocean beneath us is getting bigger by the second,
and the sky isn't black anymore. We're only a minute or two away from
either a smooth landing or a giant crater.

"Jase, I have control of the vehicle. Disarm the port A and starboard
B engine starters."

He disarms the engine starters. Now, when the engines start, the
thrust will be mostly balanced. An orange warning appears onscreen:
"Two-engine maximum thrust impact time: T-21 seconds." That's how much
time we have left before even full thrust won't save us. We have to
move fast.

"Okay," I say to Jase. "Engage autostart on the port B and starboard A
engines."

"Engaging... and we have fuel, we have ignition... and we have
thrust."  His last statement comes right before the roar of the two
engines; we're both pushed back into our seats as the engines fight to
slow our descent.

"_Wasp_, be advised," comes a controller's synthesized voice over
navcom. "We show you on half power and manual control." The ship's
synthesizer makes him sound slightly disbelieving, and for good
reason: the controller knows that the ship could fly itself more
precisely than I ever could. That's the problem, though: it will
follow the procedures no matter what. I check the map; we're well
within divert range of the spaceport. My hand-flying isn't the best,
especially when flying backwards, and we're a few hundred meters away
from the ideal trajectory.

"This is _Wasp_. I am aware we are on manual control."

The ship has reacquired a navigation lock after losing it during
atmospheric entry, and it knows where we are again. A white ring is
drawn on the display above the spaceport, and a thick line shows us
the most fuel-efficient trajectory to it. The spaceport is at the edge
of the ocean, next to the city; or rather, the spaceport is _on_ the
ocean, the landing pads arrayed in a star pattern. It uses the ocean
water for acoustic insulation during launch and landing; and as a
bonus, if a spaceship craters on landing, it will just fall into the
ocean, along with the pad, instead of blowing up half of the
spaceport.

The city behind it is drab and uninspiring, even from the air. There
are only a couple dozen skyscrapers---this planet is less
technologically advanced than most. The rest of the city looks like
any other city, with short, squat buildings surrounded by a spiderweb
of roads. To the north, the sandy landscape blends into a dense
forest. It's the sort of city I wouldn't want to live in; I wouldn't
want to live in any city, for that matter. I much prefer space.

"The flap indicates 2% deploy," says Jase suddenly. "All three sensors
are reporting that." The flap is now clear of the engine, and won't
pose a risk if we start it up. The engine still might have ingested
debris, though. Our trajectory is still looking good, if a bit
imprecise; but at less than sixty seconds until touchdown, the margins
get tighter. With the engine fully exposed now, I should be able to
safely engage the landing guidance.

"Re-arm all the engines and start the other two," I tell Jase. "I'm
going to engage landing guidance as soon as all four engines are
running. Keep an eye on port A."

He flips the arm switches and presses the autostart buttons; in
seconds, the roar of the engines gets louder and we're pushed even
harder into our seats. "Engine looks good," he calls out. "It's a few
percent below, but the computer's taken care of that."

"You have the controls," I say to the ship, and the controls instantly
stiffen up as the ship begins to realign itself for final approach and
landing. I let go of the joysticks and lean back into my chair as the
ship descends towards the spaceport.

"Altitude, one kilometer," enunciates the ship. "Speed, one hundred
twenty knots. Touchdown in fifteen seconds." The spaceport is rapidly
approaching now; the skyscrapers appear to be suddenly growing taller
as we descend below their tops. The engine thrust is finely modulated
by the ship's computers, and the plasma thrusters fire in short bursts
to orient the ship.

"Engine's still looking good," calls out Jase. "A bit hot, but that's
probably residual."

"Altitude, four hundred meters," announces the ship. "Prepare for
landing."

I can feel the ship guiding itself towards the pad, only a few seconds
away. The engine thrust lessens a bit, and the roar of the engines
changes pitch as they throttle down. The last hundred meters or so of
the landing are done slowly and precisely. The manufacturer of the
_Wasp_ prioritized smooth, precise control; nowhere was this more
apparent than during landing.

"Altitude, fifty meters. Landing gear deployed."

The ship is descending very slowly now. I've seen an Athro-class ship
land from the outside before, a long time ago; it's an awe-inspiring
sight, to see this building-sized ship nearly stopped in midair. I
watched from a distance, of course; if you have even half a brain, you
don't stand near a spaceship with its engines running.

"Altitude, eight meters. Time to landing: one second."

The ship bumps a bit as it touches down on the landing pad, and the
engines are shut off instantly. The plasma thrusters fire once more,
to stabilize the landing legs; and then all is calm except for the
near-silent hum of a landed spaceship.

Jase looks over at me as he removes his headphones. "We made it in one
piece," he says.

"That we did," I reply as I go through the power-down checklist.

"We had a mechanical failure which would probably have been fatal if I
hadn't helped you," he adds. "I've kept quiet about what you've been
doing for the last year and a half, too. So," he finishes, "Can I have
a raise?"
