The spaceship blinked into existence sixteen thousand kilometers above
the blue-gray surface of the planet. At first, it sat there silently;
then, after a few minutes, the four mammoth engines slowly resumed
their quiet hum, and the plasma thrusters at the nose and the tail
thrust in short bursts to reorient the heavy ship. The jump it had
just performed was much further than usual, and as a result, it took
the ship's full energy reserves to complete the jump.

The exterior, formerly smooth and white, was pockmarked with many
gashes and gaping holes, and some of the plasma thrusters could only
produce short, sputtering discharges. One of the engine housings had
been cracked, and two of the aerodynamic fins at the tail were bent at
odd angles. A row of scrapes ran the entire length of the right side,
exposing the internal hoses and cables where the skin had been peeled
back.

The orbit it had jumped into was highly elliptical; it was near the
periapsis of its orbit, and would swing around the planet in an orbit
with a three-month period. If the ship had been in better condition,
it would be preparing for planetary entry by lowering its orbit. In
its current condition, though, it couldn't hope to survive the
atmospheric entry to the surface in one piece; indeed, it was almost a
miracle that it had completed the jump in the first place. Damage that
extensive usually resulted in a scrap of the ship; it was simply too
expensive and difficult to repair.

So the captain sent out a distress signal on the system-wide navcom
network, and a few hours later, a smaller ship with red and white
stripes painted on it approached from the distant planet. It
approached the damaged ship, which opened a small door on its hull,
through which a docking mechanism extended. The smaller ship
maneuvered itself until it was next to the dock, then uncovered and
extended its own. Hard contact between the two was confirmed at eight
hours and fourteen minutes after the damaged ship had first jumped in.

The ships remained docked for three days; during this time, the
damaged ship was stripped of valuable items, and its crew prepared to
return to the planet. The ship would be tracked by radar; it would
remain in its orbit for centuries. The orbit would be made public, and
one of the myriad space salvage corporations would eventually separate
the ship of every bit of valuable material it held.

After the rescue ship departed, the damaged ship remained alone for
nearly a week; then, a massive ship jumped into the system, only a few
hundred kilometers away. Its sharp, angular lines covered up a massive
power plant and engine, and the double slots at the front were used
for launching close-range attack drones. It was an offensive
battleship, the likes of which only the UASF could design or
afford. Such a ship would usually be detected by system scans the
moment it jumped in; however, this ship was protected by an advanced
visual and radio shield that warped space around it. As long as the
shield remained active, the ship would be undetectable by all but the
most advanced scanners.

Over the next two days, it slowly approached the damaged ship; then,
in the span of only a few minutes, the shield was disabled, the
damaged ship was pulled in by drones, and the battleship jumped out
with the damaged ship on board.

The dramatic gravitic ripple was reported mere minutes later on the planet
and on its three space stations; speculation abounded as to the
cause. After the scanners had stopped going haywire, it was noticed
that the damaged ship was gone. Nuclear thermal runaway in ship
power plants was not unheard of, but it was rare; however, that it
would happen to such a badly damaged ship was not a surprise. The
event was quickly forgotten.

The last member of the damaged ship's crew had been discharged from
the hospital the day of the event. None of them have been heard from
since.
