
Jase and I wait in the bright passenger airlock of the ship while
awaiting egress instructions from the ground controllers. The
passenger airlock is at the top of the ship, and we have to wait for
the ground computers to manipulate the passenger arm into place. The
_Wasp's_ airlock is spartan, as it should be; the floor gently curves into the
sidewalls and ceiling, and the front and back doors are fifteen
centimeters of carbon fiber weave. Air pressure is no joke.

A dull metal-against-metal _clunk_ indicates that the passenger arm
has locked onto the airlock's outside rim; seconds later, a green
light on the panel flickers alive in front of me, indicating that the
lock is solid and the data connection is in place. I tap the
"equalize" button and step back from the air vents.

It takes about thirty seconds to equalize the interior and exterior
air pressure; there's a faint hiss as an air valve opens and the
outside air is allowed to enter the airlock through large vents on
opposite sides of the airlock. I reach forwards and pull on the outer
airlock door's long handle, and with a series of clicks, the door
slowly swings out.

The corridor in the passenger arm is about fifty feet long, with a
strip of blue-tinged lighting running along the left and right edges
of the ceiling. I step into it, being wary of the slight wobble the
arm has relative to the ship. After all, we're about four hundred feet
up right now; some wobble is to be expected.

The double elevator doors, at the end of the corridor, slide open
smoothly as we approach. Brushed metal surrounds the rear glass wall
of the elevator cabin. I can see the coastline and the edge of the
city to the right, and underneath me, I can barely see the edges of
two other landing pads.

***

The two tons of cargo we've carried halfway across the Orion-Cygnus
arm for the last two weeks are in the hold of the ship, safely
secured.

***

The mechanics are amazed. They say that they've never seen damage this
extensive on a ship before.
